The Project Gutenberg eBook of On yacht etiquette
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: On yacht etiquette
        What to do, and how to do it; courtesies, discipline, ceremonies and routine for any and all circumstances; duties of officers, etc.

Author: Howard Patterson


        
Release date: June 8, 2026 [eBook #78830]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: The Rudder Publishing Company, 1903

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/78830

Credits: Tim Miller, Elizabeth Tapley and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON YACHT ETIQUETTE ***




UNIFORM EDITIONS


RUDDER ~ON~ SERIES

_Bound in blue buckram and gold, 32mo, illustrated_

  ON YACHTS AND YACHT HANDLING. By Thomas Fleming Day. Price $1.

  ON MARINE MOTORS AND MOTOR LAUNCHES. By E. W. Roberts, M. E. Price $1.

  ON YACHT ETIQUETTE. Second Edition Revised. By Captain Howard
  Patterson. Price $1.

  SOUTHWARD BY THE INSIDE ROUTE. Reprint from THE RUDDER.


RUDDER ~HOW-TO~ SERIES

_Bound in blue buckram and gold, 8vo, illustrated_

  HOW TO BUILD A SKIPJACK. Reprint from THE RUDDER. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A RACER FOR $50. Reprint from THE RUDDER. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A MOTOR LAUNCH. By Chas. D. Mower. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A KNOCKABOUT. By Chas. D. Mower. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A RACING SLOOP. By Chas. D. Mower. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A SHOAL-DRAUGHT SLOOP. Reprint from THE RUDDER. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A FLATTIE OR SHARPIE. Reprint from THE RUDDER. Price $1.

  HOW TO BUILD A MODEL YACHT. By Herbert Fisher. Price $1.




On
Yacht Etiquette:

WHAT TO DO, AND HOW TO DO IT. COURTESIES,
DISCIPLINE, CEREMONIES AND ROUTINE FOR
ANY AND ALL CIRCUMSTANCES.
DUTIES OF OFFICERS, ETC.

BY
CAPTAIN HOWARD PATTERSON,

_Principal of the New York Nautical College,
Formerly Commander of the New York School Ship “St. Mary’s”,
Master of Various Sail and Steam Yachts,
and Admiral of the Haytien Navy._

AUTHOR OF

_The Navigator’s Pocket Book_; _Yachting Under American Statute_; _The
Illustrated Nautical Encyclopedia_; _The Yachtsman’s Kedge Anchor_;
_Yacht Sails_; _Hand Book for Masters and Mates_, _etc._

REVISED EDITION.

NEW YORK AND LONDON;
THE RUDDER PUBLISHING COMPANY

1903




COPYRIGHT, 1903,

BY

CAPTAIN HOWARD PATTERSON

                                                           PRESS OF
                                                           THOMSON & CO.
                                                           9 MURRAY ST.,
                                                           NEW YORK.




                                   TO

                           HOWARD GOULD, ESQ.,
                          (NEW YORK YACHT CLUB)

                  THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED BY HIS FRIEND,
                               THE AUTHOR.




PREFACE


It is to be understood that the owner of the yacht is styled as
“Captain” throughout this treatise, and it is eminently proper that
this should be, as the Government prescribes that the owner of a yacht
is entitled to take out her custom house and other papers as the lawful
and legalized “Master” of his vessel.

It being impracticable to follow out naval rules strictly in the
matter of salutes, courtesies, ceremonies, etc., a modification of the
same has been arranged which will cover the requirements of yachting
and contribute dignity to such observances as are called for in the
foregoing.

As stated under the head of “Duties and Responsibilities of Officers”
the rules and regulations laid down specially refer to the larger class
of steam yachts, but it is explained that these laws may be modified to
apply to smaller classes of pleasure vessels.




CONTENTS


COLORS IN GENERAL                            11

SPECIAL LIGHTS                               27

OFFICIAL CEREMONIES AND COURTESIES           29

SALUTES IN GENERAL                           41

BOAT SERVICE                                 47

GOVERNMENT OF THE YACHT                      56

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS      65

SYNOPSIS OF U. S. YACHTING LAWS              82




_YACHT ETIQUETTE_

[Illustration: RUDDER STATION FLAG]




COLORS IN GENERAL.


  DETAILS CONCERNING YACHT FLAGS, AND HOW THEY ARE USED.

The pennant is a triangular shaped flag, and is used for the club
burgee. The swallowtail is used for the captain’s (owner’s) private
signal. The rectangular flag is used principally for flag officers’
distinguishing flags. The shape of the bunting will generally signify
whether the flag is that of the club, of a flag officer or of a
captain. The bunting used for flag officers’ distinguishing flags is
colored--blue for commodore, red for vice-commodore, and white for
rear-commodore.

[Illustration: CLUB BURGEE]

[Illustration: PRIVATE SIGNAL]

[Illustration: COMMODORE’S FLAG]


  TIME TO MAKE COLORS--PLACE TO DISPLAY SAME.

When at anchor or underway, the ensign and colors of a yacht in
commission should be hoisted at 8 A. M. and kept flying until sunset
(local time). This does not apply to a flag officer, who should display
his official flag continuously (day and night) while in commission.
When at anchor the ensign is hoisted on the flagpole at the stern of
both steam and sail yachts, and when underway it is hoisted to the
after gaff-end on sailing vessels; but is retained on the pole in
the case of steam yachts, although it may be hoisted to the gaff-end
if desired. The burgee should be hoisted to the foretopmast head on
schooners, and the private signal at the maintopmast. In the case of
yawls, the ensign may be hoisted to the mizzenmast head, both when at
anchor and when underway, and the burgee may be hoisted to the mainmast
head when at anchor and the private flag when underway, the same as on
cutters, sloops and chief officers, or the yawl may be considered as
a schooner and the bunting displayed as for the latter vessel. In the
case of a launch the burgee should be flown from the bow pole. Flag
officers’ signals should be flown from the truck of a cutter, sloop or
catboat, the main truck of a schooner, yawl or steamer, and the bow
pole of a launch. The church pennant is hoisted over the ensign during
divine service. (See “Colors to be Flown in Yacht’s Boats.”)

[Illustration: YACHT ENSIGN]

[Illustration: CHURCH FLAG]


  SENIOR OFFICER PRESENT TO GIVE THE TIME FOR COLORS AND SUNSET.

The time for making colors and sunset should be taken from the senior
officer’s yacht present, whether he is on board or not, and the only
gun fired for colors and sunset should be the one on such senior’s
yacht.


  AT ANCHOR WITH NAVAL VESSEL OR OFF A NAVAL STATION.

When a yacht is in company with a vessel of her own navy, or at anchor
off a naval station, she should regulate the time for colors and sunset
to such vessel or station.


  VISITING HOME WATERS OF ANOTHER YACHT CLUB.

Yachts visiting the home waters of another club (provided such waters
are other than their own) should take their time for colors and sunset
from the yacht of the senior officer of such club present.


  ENTERING OR LEAVING PORT BEFORE COLORS OR AFTER SUNSET.

When a yacht enters port in the morning before colors are made, or in
the evening after sunset, her ensign, club burgee and private signal
should be displayed and kept flying until the yacht comes to anchor,
when they should be hauled down--provided there be sufficient light for
the colors to be recognized.


  NIGHT PENNANT.

During the night (between sunset and colors) the yacht should fly a
night pennant at the maintopmast head, or in the case of a three-mast
vessel, at the mizzenmast head--except in the case of flag officers.


  ABSENT FLAG.

During the absence of the captain from the yacht, a blue rectangular
flag (called Absent Flag) should be kept flying from daylight until
dark at the starboard main spreader of a fore-and-aft vessel, or on the
starboard main-yard arm of a square-rigged vessel. The private signal
(or flag officer’s pennant), however, is to be kept flying, whether the
captain is on board or not.

[Illustration: ABSENCE FLAG]


  SINGLE STICKERS--WHERE, WHEN AND HOW TO FLY BURGEE AND PRIVATE SIGNAL.

Single-masted vessels should not fly the private signal on the same
halliards as the club burgee. When at anchor the club burgee should be
displayed, and when underway the private signal, except when on the
annual cruise of the club, when the club burgee should be flown both at
anchor and underway.


  MEAL PENNANTS.

Meal Pennants may be hoisted during hours when the colors are not
displayed.

During the meal hours of the captain, when the yacht is at anchor, a
white rectangular flag should be flown at the starboard main spreader,
and when same is exhibited, guests are politely debarred. During the
meal hours of the crew a red pennant should be flown from the port
fore spreader, and at such times boat crews should not be called away
unnecessarily. Of course, on a “single-sticker” the white flag and red
meal pennant must both be flown from the same mast, but they will be
exhibited on their proper sides. After dark a white light should be
shown from the starboard main spreader to indicate that the captain is
at dinner. Meal flags should not be flown when the yacht is underway.
In a square-rigged yacht the captain’s meal pennant should be flown
from the starboard main yard arm, and the crew’s meal pennant at the
port fore yard arm. (See Dinner Light.)

[Illustration: OWNER’S MEAL FLAG]

[Illustration: CREW’S MEAL FLAG]


  COLORS TO BE FLOWN IN YACHT’S BOATS.

The yacht’s gig, launch, etc., when brought to the gangway or when
away from the yacht, shall display the ensign at the stern. While the
captain is in the boat, the private signal should be displayed at the
bow. If a club member is in the boat without the captain, a club burgee
should be displayed at the bow.


  ENSIGN TO BE EXHIBITED WHEN PASSING NAVAL VESSELS, LIGHTHOUSES,
  MILITARY POSTS, ETC.

The yacht ensign should be exhibited when at sea on falling in with
naval vessels, or when approaching lightships, lighthouses, signal
stations and military posts.


  FLAG OFFICER’S PENNANT.

Flag officers fly a pennant at the main on yachts and on the forward
flagstaff of gigs, to distinguish their rank. These pennants take the
place of the yacht’s private signal.


  YACHT SHORT-HANDED.

If the yacht is short-handed, two flags may be bent on to the same set
of halliards, so that while one flag is being sent aloft the other may
be coming down.


  BURGEE AND PRIVATE SIGNAL MAY BE BROKEN OUT.

The club burgee and private signal may be “made up” and mast-headed
previous to colors, and “broken out” when the signal for colors is
given, but the ensign should never be made up and broken out.


  COLORS TO BE WELL HOISTED.

Daylight should never show between the head of a flag and the truck.


  MASTLESS YACHTS.

On mastless yachts the colors are exhibited on staffs placed forward
and aft.


  NATIONAL MOURNING.

On occasions of national mourning the ensign should be half-masted, but
the burgee and private signal should be kept mast-headed, unless the
official was a member of the club whose flag you are flying, in which
case the club burgee should be half-masted.


  DEATH OF CAPTAIN.

In the event of the death of the captain on shore, both the club burgee
and private signal of his yacht should be kept half-masted from colors
until sunset on the day of his funeral, but the ensign should be kept
fully hoisted during the same time. If, on the other hand, the death
should occur on board while the yacht is in port, then the ensign also
should be half-masted as soon as the body leaves the vessel for the
shore, and the ensign should be kept so flying until sunset of the
same day. Should the burial of the Captain take place at sea, then
the ensign of the vessel and the captain’s private signal should be
displayed at half-mast at the commencement of the ceremony and kept
flying until its conclusion, when the ensign and private signal should
be hauled down.


  DEATH OF FLAG OFFICER.

On the occasion of the death of a flag officer while his yacht is
in port, his pennant should be hauled down at sunset on the day of
his funeral, and should not be again hoisted--the yacht’s private
signal taking its place. If the funeral takes place at sea, then the
pennant should be hauled down with the ensign at the conclusion of the
ceremonies.


  DEATH OF CLUB MEMBER.

When mourning is ordered for the death of a club member, the burgee
only is half-masted, and this should be observed whether underway or at
anchor.


  HOW TO HALF-MAST COLORS.

The ensign, burgee and private signal (also flag officer’s pennant)
should always be mast-headed before they are half-masted.


  SALUTING WITH ENSIGN AT HALF-MAST.

Whenever it becomes necessary to salute with the ensign while it is
flying at half-mast, it must be mast-headed before it is dipped, and
mast-headed again before it is half-masted after the salute.


  HAULING DOWN HALF-MAST COLORS.

Before hauling down half-masted colors, always mast-head them first.


  DEATH OF ONE OF THE CREW.

In the event of the death of the Sailing-Master, mate, or other
officer, or one of the crew at sea, the ensign of the yacht should be
half-masted during the funeral ceremony. Should the death of one of the
above occur on board while the yacht is in port, then the ensign should
be half-masted from the time that the body leaves the yacht until the
return of the boat that conveyed the body to the shore.


  PERMISSION TO HALF-MAST COLORS TO BE OBTAINED.

No yacht of a fleet other than that of the senior officer present
should ever half-mast her colors until permission to do so has been
obtained.


  HOURS FOR HALF-MASTING COLORS.

Funeral honors in the way of half-masting colors should not be paid
before sunrise nor after sunset.


  BOAT ENGAGED IN FUNERAL CEREMONY.

When a boat is engaged in funeral ceremonies in conveying a body to the
shore, the ensign in the stern should be kept half-masted until the
body is landed.


  MAKING COLORS.

About five minutes before colors, have the club and private signals,
night pennant and ensign halliards manned, the boat-boom guys tended,
and a hand stationed at the ship’s bell. As soon as the signal is given
for colors, call: “Strike eight bells and hoist away!” At this instant
swing out the boat booms, haul down the night pennant, and send aloft
the bunting. The flags may be sent up in stops before eight bells, and
broken out on the first stroke of the bell, but the ensign should never
be broken out, and should be hoisted slowly.


  MAKING SUNSET.

About fifteen minutes before the time given for sunset, have the anchor
light, gangway light, and signal light or lights all ready, the boats
either hoisted or dropped astern, and the night pennant bent on. About
five minutes before sunset, station the men at the boom guys, club
and private signals and ensign halliards, anchor-light whip, gangway
light, and, if a flagship, the distinguishing lights. If you are the
flagship you will also have a gunner stationed at the offshore gun,
and wait, watch in hand (care should be observed to have it on correct
local time), for the time given for sunset. But if you are taking time
from another vessel, or from the shore, the time need not concern you;
simply await the sunset signal; then call, “Haul down!” At this instant
let go the forward boat-boom guys and swing the booms in. Observe that
the club, private signal, and ensign are hauled down (the two former
preserving the same height to one another until they reach the deck)
and that the night pennant and anchor light go aloft as soon as the
order to haul down is given. Arrange the gangway lights, and make the
bunting up neatly and stow it away in the flag locker. If the boats are
riding astern, give them a short painter to prevent them from being
run over by vessels coming in to anchor, or passing under your stern,
and never allow a boat to ride astern without a white light in same.
If boat booms remain swung out, they should have a white light at the
outboard end.


  DAY SIGNALS FOR PILOTS.

The following signals, numbered 1 and 2, when displayed together or
separately, shall be deemed to be signals for a pilot, in the day
time: 1st, To be hoisted at the fore, the Jack or other national
color usually worn by merchant ships, having round it a white border
one-fifth of the breadth of the flag; or, 2d, The International Code
Pilotage Signal, indicated by Flag “S.”.


  NIGHT SIGNALS FOR PILOTS.

The following signals, numbered 1 and 2, when used or displayed
together, or separately, shall be deemed to be signals for a pilot, in
the nighttime; 1st, The pyrotechnic light, commonly known as a blue
light, every fifteen minutes; or, 2d, a bright white light, flashed or
shown at short intervals, just above the bulwarks, for about a minute
at a time.


  SIGNAL FOR TOWING-BOAT.

The signal for a towing-boat is made by setting the ensign in the main
rigging a little above the deck.


  DRESSING SHIP.

The prettiest mode of dressing a ship with flags is to make an arch of
them from the jib-boom end to the foretopmast head, thence across to
the maintopmast head, and down to the main boom end, allowing two or
more flags to hang down under the jib-boom end and the main boom end
respectively, with a lead attached to the end of each line to keep the
flags from flying around. Hoisted to the trucks, by the regular signal
halliards, should be the ensign Jack, or the flags of the nation in
whose port the ship is lying, or the distinguishing flags of the person
whom it is desired to honor. The arch of flags should be hoisted so as
to give the former flags room to display themselves. Have blocks at the
topmast heads for the fore-and-aft strings of arch flags, and hoist the
flags to them by means of a whip. The flying jib halliards will do
to hoist the foremost part of the arch (from the jib-boom end to the
foretopmast head). Care should be taken and taste must be exercised in
selecting and placing the flags, and rectangular flags should alternate
with pennants. Reeve off the three arch halliards and measure the
distance in the three clear parts, by marking the halliards so that
you will know what length of flags to bend on, and thus avoid the
inconvenience and annoyance of sending the string on deck after they
have once been hoisted, for the purpose of alterations. In addition
to stopping the flags to the halliards on the head and tack, take a
couple of stitches to the halliards about midway. The Jack should be
hoisted on the Jack-staff on the bowsprit. In reeving off the halliards
for the span between the fore and maintopmast heads, let the ends (or
hauling parts) lead through single blocks and down alongside of the
fore and main masts, respectively, bending the flags on to the bight,
and trice up by the two parts, manned at the same time that the flags
are sent aloft. At sunset come up with your outhauls, and the forward
and after strings of flags will come inboard, and can then be lowered
away. Just before “colors” send the two mast-head ensigns aloft “made
up.” When the signal is made, hoist away on the arch halliards, and,
at the instant the flags reach home, “break out” the ensign and the
Jack. Pennants and square flags should be bent on alternately. Another
mode of dressing ship is by “up-and-down” flags--that is, by flying
a string of flags from each topmast head to the deck. Flag officers’
pennants and burgees should not be used in dressing ship, nor should
the ensign of any foreign nation be displayed, except it is desired to
compliment such nation, when it should be flown from the main truck.
When a yacht is dressed all her lowered boats should fly the ensign,
whether underway or riding to the boat booms. On special occasions a
steam yacht underway, or a sailing yacht being towed, may dress ship.

[Illustration: UNION JACK]


  COMMODORE OF A CLUB ON A CRUISE WITH ANOTHER CLUB IN WHICH HE IS A
  MEMBER.

In such an event the Commodore should not fly his rank flag, but should
fly the club flag of the cruising club, and should also fly his private
signal, so as not to exhibit evidence of his flag rank in any way. In
other words, he should act simply as a Captain during the cruise, or
while he remains with the squadron. When at anchor with the squadron
at night, he should display only the Captain’s light, the same as the
other Captains, and never, under any circumstances, show Commodore’s
lights.


  FLAG OFFICER OF A CLUB ENTERING HARBOR OF ANOTHER CLUB IN WHICH HE IS
  A MEMBER.

In this case circumstances govern. Should the Commodore enter said
harbor, either alone or while on a cruise with his squadron, he should
fly his Commodore’s pennant and club flag; but if he is cruising
independently, after relegating his command to his junior, and is at
anchor in the harbor of a yacht club to which he belongs, then, if he
elects to fly the latter’s club flag, he should do so together with his
private signal; but he should not fly his Commodore’s pennant with a
club flag other than that of which he is Commodore.


  USE OF COMMODORE’S PRIVATE SIGNAL.

The Commodore’s private signal should be used only on such occasions as
he does not fly his Commodore’s pennant--cruising with another club in
which he is a member, etc.


  COMMODORE’S PENNANT NIGHT AND DAY.

The Commodore’s flag shall not be hauled down at sunset, but shall be
flown day and night. Should it be desired to substitute an old pennant
for service during the night, then send aloft the old pennant made up,
and break it out before commencing to lower the other. Of course,
this requires two sets of halliards, which should always be rove on a
flagship.


  THE JACK--WHEN DISPLAYED.

The Jack should be set on Sundays, also on all occasions of ceremony,
the same being flown from a staff on the bowsprit. Wash clothes should
not be hung up when the Jack is exhibited.




SPECIAL LIGHTS.


  COMMODORE’S LIGHTS.

Between sunset and colors, when in harbor, the Commodore shows two blue
lights in globular lanterns suspended perpendicularly at the after
gaff-end, or on the flagpole at the stern.


  VICE-COMMODORE’S LIGHTS.

The Vice-Commodore shows the same number of lights as the Commodore,
and in the same place, but the color is red.


  REAR-COMMODORE’S LIGHTS.

The Rear-Commodore also shows the same number of lights and in the same
place as prescribed for the Commodore, but the color is white.


  ABSENT LIGHT.

At night a blue lantern should be substituted for the blue absent flag,
and hoisted at the starboard main spreader or yard arm.


  DINNER LIGHT.

A white light hung at the starboard main spreader or yardarm after
sunset has the same significance as the white meal pennant.


  WHITE LANTERNS UNDER THE BOOM.

These are used for illuminating the after deck and have no official
significance.




OFFICIAL CEREMONIES AND COURTESIES.


  QUARTER-DECK TO BE SALUTED.

The quarter-deck should always be saluted by officers and men, by
touching or raising the cap, upon coming over the gangway when boarding
or leaving their own or another yacht, or a naval vessel.


  YACHT JOINING A SQUADRON MUST REPORT.

When joining a squadron, a yacht must report to the commanding officer
of the squadron, by the owner of said yacht visiting in person the
flag officer in charge, and a yacht should never part company with the
squadron without receiving permission so to do.


  SENIOR OFFICER TO RETURN SALUTES AND VISITS.

The senior officer present is in command of all the yachts at the
anchorage that are flying the burgee of the club he represents, and it
is his duty to make and return salutes and visits.


  SENIOR OFFICER TO TENDER CIVILITIES TO VISITING YACHT--CAPTAIN OF
  VISITING YACHT TO PAY RESPECTS IN PERSON.

When a yacht visits the home waters of another club, and after salutes
have been exchanged, the senior officer present representing such home
club should send to the visiting yacht a tender of the civilities of
the club, after which the Captain of the visiting yacht should pay his
respects in person to the commanding officer of the anchorage.


  RECEPTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

The President of the United States should be received at the gangway
of the yacht by the commanding officer of such, and should be piped
over the side by the boatswain--the crew being drawn up in line on
the port side of the deck. As the President reaches the deck, the
President’s flag should be broken out at the main-topmast-head, and
one gun fired from the yacht in salute to same, while the Captain,
officers and crew should raise their caps in salute. When the President
leaves, the crew should be stationed as before, and the Captain should
escort the President to the gangway, where the Boatswain should be
stationed as before, to blow the pipe and raise his cap, together with
the crew, as the President reaches the rail. One gun should be fired
and the President’s flag hauled down as soon as the boat conveying the
President shoves off from the yacht’s side. Provided the President
embarks in one of the yacht’s boats, his flag should be carried on
the flagpole in the bows of the boat, while the President is in it,
and the yacht’s ensign should be carried at the stern, as usual. The
Sailing-Master of the yacht should be detailed to take charge of the
yacht’s boat that carries the President. The Captain’s gig should
always be the boat employed in transporting guests whom it is desired
to specially honor.


  RECEPTION OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Vice-President of the United States should receive the same honors
as prescribed for the President, except that the national flag should
be substituted for the President’s flag and only one salute fired,
which should take place when the Vice-President leaves. A small
national flag should be carried on the flagstaff in the bows of the
yacht’s boat while conveying the Vice-President.


  RECEPTION OF THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.

The Secretary of the Navy of the United States should receive the
same honors as prescribed for the Vice-President, substituting the
distinguishing flag of the Secretary.


  RECEPTION OF OTHER CABINET OFFICERS.

Other Cabinet officers should receive the same honors as prescribed for
the Secretary of the Navy, except that there is no distinguishing or
special bunting to be used.


  RECEPTION OF THE GOVERNOR OF A STATE.

The Governor of a State should be received with the same honors as
prescribed for the Vice-President, except that the flag of his State
should be substituted, both at the main-topmast-head and in the bows of
the yacht’s boats.


  RECEPTION OF A FOREIGN SOVEREIGN.

A foreign sovereign or the chief magistrate of any foreign country
should be received on board with the same honors as prescribed for the
President of the United States, except that the flag of his country
should be substituted.


  RECEPTION OF A MEMBER OF A ROYAL FAMILY.

A member of a royal family should receive the same honors as prescribed
for their sovereign, except that only one salute be fired, which should
take place at the time the honored guest leaves the yacht.


  RECEPTION OF NAVAL AND ARMY OFFICERS.

A naval or army officer should be received at the gangway of the yacht
by the Captain, and should be piped over the side by the Boatswain,
who should stand alongside the gangway and keep his cap lifted while
blowing his pipe. Upon leaving, the Captain should escort his guest
to the gangway and should observe that the Boatswain is stationed
as before to wind his call as the officer goes over the yacht’s
side. If the naval or army officer is of the rank of Commodore or
Lieutenant-Colonel, or higher, a gun may be fired after the boat
containing the guest has shoved off from the yacht’s side. Provided the
yacht’s boat is used by the guest, one of the yacht’s deck officers
should be sent in charge of same.


  RECEPTION OF MEMBERS OF THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS.

Members of the Diplomatic Corps of the rank of Minister should be given
the same honors as prescribed for Cabinet officers, and if below the
rank of Minister, they should be given the same honors as prescribed
for naval and army officers.


  RECEPTION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.

Other high officials not mentioned in the foregoing may have such
honors accorded them in visiting the yachts as may be consistent with
the rules laid down.


  RECEPTION OF FLAG OFFICERS.

Refer to “Salutes in General,” next chapter.


  CEREMONY OF PUTTING A YACHT IN COMMISSION.

The ceremony of putting a yacht in commission is exceedingly simple.
As a rule, this takes place as soon as the yacht is in proper
sailing trim--that is, when the bright woodwork, etc., is scraped
and varnished, standing rigging set up, running rigging rove off,
decks cleaned, sails bent, etc. The officers and men appear on deck,
in uniform, and the club burgee and the Captain’s private signal are
“made up” and hoisted to their respective trucks; then the Captain
(the Sailing-Master may be authorized to act in the former’s place)
addresses the Sailing-Master: “Mr. ----, I declare the yacht ‘----’
in commission.” When this is said, the Sailing-Master orders the
burgee and private signal to be “broken out” and the yacht ensign
hoisted--this consummates the putting of the yacht in commission.


  CEREMONY OF PUTTING THE YACHT OUT OF COMMISSION.

The ceremony of going out of commission consists simply of the
following: Before the unbending of sail or the dismantling of the yacht
in any way, the crew appear on deck in uniform, and the club burgee,
private signal and ensign halliards are manned. The owner addresses
the Sailing-Master: “Mr. ----, I declare the yacht ‘----’ out of
commission.” Upon this the Sailing-Master orders a gun to be fired and
the burgee, private signal and ensign lowered. The dismantling of the
yacht may then commence.


  COMMODORE’S DUTIES IN REGARD TO THE CEREMONY OF PUTTING THE CLUB IN
  COMMISSION, AND OPENING THE CLUBHOUSE FOR THE SEASON.

After the date of the opening day of the Clubhouse has been fixed upon
by the Commodore and House Committee (which usually occurs between the
1st and 15th of May, and in some instances later), the Secretary, at
the request of the Commodore, or according to the regulations of the
club, notifies all members, at least ten days in advance, by mail, that
the club will open on this certain day and date, and the time selected
is usually 12.00 noon.

After the arrival of the members, the Commodore calls them to order
in the Clubhouse, and in his own words tells them of his pleasure
in seeing them, and impresses upon each officer, committee, and the
members in general the importance of observing the laws and regulations
of the club, and expresses his wishes for the success of the club for
the coming season. The Commodore then advises that all assemble in
front of the Clubhouse around the flagpole, or on the veranda, for the
purpose of putting the club in commission. While the Commodore has
been addressing the members, the employees of the club have bent all
flags to their halliards and loaded the cannon. One man is stationed at
each signal halliard and one at the cannon, standing by. The Commodore
proceeds a little in advance of members and guests, and at a signal
from him (usually a waving of the hand, previously agreed upon) the
gun is fired, the signals run up, and at the same time the Commodore
announces: “I declare the ---- Yacht Club in commission.” All the
yachts in the harbor should have dressed ship in advance, and should
salute the club by firing a gun as quickly as possible after the gun of
the Clubhouse has been fired.

This concludes the act of putting the club in commission.


  COMMODORE’S DUTIES DURING THE PERIOD THAT THE YACHT CLUB IS IN
  COMMISSION.

While the club is in commission the Commodore should deem it incumbent
upon him to be watchful concerning the general management of the club;
to observe that the various officers are alive to their duties; that
the rules and regulations are enforced and obeyed, and that harmony
prevails.

The Commodore should preside at all general meetings of the club at
the Clubhouse; but in the event of his anticipated absence he should
delegate the Vice-Commodore to preside, who, in turn, will notify the
Rear-Commodore should he find himself unable to attend. In the absence
of the three Commodores, the Fleet Captain will preside, and in case of
the latter’s absence the Senior Captain present will take the chair,
call the meeting to order and transact the business of same.

In all cases of dispute in club matters, the Commodore and Board of
Trustees should be the arbitrators.

Before the season arrives for the commissioning of the club, the
Commodore should name his Fleet Captain, Fleet Surgeon and Chaplain,
etc.--in fact, the sooner he names the same after his election as
Commodore the better.

In the selection of his Fleet Captain the Commodore should be careful
to appoint a gentleman of experience in yachting, as such a one will
prove invaluable to the chief Flag Officer, taking a great amount of
responsibility and care and detail away from the latter.

In case the Fleet Captain has no yacht of his own, the Commodore’s
yacht should be open to him on all possible occasions, as a matter
of courtesy, and on a cruise of the club, whether the Fleet Captain
possesses a yacht or not, his place is on the flagship, in constant
official attendance upon the Commodore, and in supervision of the fleet
from the flagship’s bridge or quarter-deck.

The Fleet Captain should, under the authority of the Commodore,
direct all the movements of the fleet when on the annual, or any
special cruise, and the crew of the flagship should be notified by
the Commodore to execute the orders of the Fleet Captain upon such
occasions.

Should the Commodore decide to be absent from the club station for
several days, he should notify the Vice-Commodore, so that during such
absence the latter might assume the duties of Commodore should some
special occurrence be experienced.


  THE COMMODORE’S DUTIES WHEN THE CLUB IS GOING OUT OF COMMISSION.

When the date of going out of commission is fixed, all the members,
at the request of the Commodore, are notified, through the Secretary,
by mail, to attend this special meeting, in order to put the club out
of commission. In some instances the Secretary, Treasurer and various
committees submit their reports at this meeting, other times, again,
the reports are not submitted until some time later in the autumn
or winter. After all the business of this stated meeting has been
transacted, the Commodore thanks each and all for the great aid he has
received from them all, also mentioning about the success of the club
for the past season. He then proposes that they proceed to put the club
out of commission. The signal halliards and cannon have been manned,
and at a given signal from the Commodore the gun is fired, flags are
hauled down, and the Commodore at the same time says: “I now declare
the ---- Yacht Club out of commission.” If there are yachts at anchor
off the Clubhouse they should salute the club by firing their guns.

NOTE.--It is customary on the occasion of the yacht club going out of
commission to have a banquet for members and guests.


  HONORS TO THE CAPTAIN WHEN EMBARKING AND DISEMBARKING.

When the Captain is seen coming off to the yacht, it should so be
reported to the Sailing-Master (provided he is on board, and, in
his absence, to the Mate), who will at once station one of the
Quarter-Masters, or one of the crew, at the “absent flag” halliards,
and the Boatswain at the gangway, to blow a pipe as the Captain comes
over the side, and, as the gig comes alongside the gangway, the
Sailing-Master will face the side, and as the Captain steps over the
rail, the Sailing-Master and Boatswain will salute by touching the cap
visor, and the absent flag will be hauled down. The gig will remain
alongside for orders. The Sailing-Master, after ascertaining the
Captain’s wishes in regard to the gig, will either order it hoisted or
hauled out to the boom. When intending to leave the ship, the Captain
should send word to that effect to the Sailing-Master (or to the Mate,
in the absence of the former), who will see that the gig is dropped
down to the starboard gangway and properly manned, when it will then
be reported as ready to the Captain. The Sailing-Master and Boatswain
will then take their stations at the gangway, having a hand stationed
at the absent flag halliards; and as the Captain passes them to enter
the boat, the Boatswain will wind his call and touch his cap, and the
Captain shall receive and return the Sailing-Master’s salute. The
absent flag will be broken out as the boat shoves off. On entering or
leaving the gig the Captain should be saluted by the Coxswain only.


  DUTIES OF THE FLEET CAPTAIN.

The Fleet Captain is appointed by the Commodore as his executive
officer, and retains his position at the pleasure of the Commodore. His
appointment is based upon his practical yachting experience, that he
may be enabled to transact all official business in connection with the
fleet; to decide questions of etiquette, and to relieve the Commodore
of the details of squadron evolution. Orders of the Commodore, or
Acting Commodore, should be issued through the Fleet Captain, and
endorsed by the latter; but only when the order bears the autograph
signature of the Fleet Captain should the word “official” be used. The
Fleet Captain’s flag should be carried on the forward staff of any
launch or boat that he may be in charge of.




SALUTES IN GENERAL.


  GUNS BETWEEN SUNSET AND COLORS.

Guns fired between sunset and colors are considered signals of distress.


  GUNS ON SUNDAY.

Guns should not be fired on Sunday, either in the way of a salute or
when getting underway or when coming to anchor.


  COLORS AND SUNSET GUN TO BE FIRED BY SENIOR OFFICER’S YACHT.

When in company with one or more yachts of the same club, the gun fired
to make colors or sunset should be that of the yacht of the senior
officer of such club present, whether he is on board his vessel or not.


  YACHTS TO SALUTE NAVAL VESSELS.

All yachts should salute naval vessels of their own or any other
friendly country, by dipping the ensign. It is customary for yachts to
salute a naval vessel by dipping the ensign once.


  DIPPING THE ENSIGN.

In no case is the ensign to be dipped more than once in one salute.


  YACHTS PASSING TO SALUTE.

Yachts passing should salute each other by dipping the ensign once--the
junior saluting first.


  YACHTS MEETING AT SEA TO SALUTE.

In meeting at sea yachts should salute each other, and this salute
should consist of simply dipping the ensign once.


  STEAM WHISTLES NOT TO BE USED IN SALUTING.

Steam whistles and sirens should not be employed in making or
exchanging salutes between steam yachts or launches.


  TO SALUTE UPON ENTERING HARBOR.

Upon entering harbor, Captains should salute the commanding officer of
the anchorage by firing one gun or by dipping the ensign once at the
time the anchor is dropped.


  SALUTE TO A YACHT ENTERING HARBOR.

The salute to be made to a yacht entering port and entitled to a
salute consists of dipping the ensign once, or the firing of a gun when
the arriving yacht drops her anchor.


  SPECIAL SALUTE TO COMMODORE ENTERING HARBOR.

On the occasion of the Commodore entering harbor to assume personal
command of his squadron, he should be saluted on coming to anchor (and
not before) by each yacht of the squadron. This salute should consist
of the firing of one gun from each yacht, or by the dipping once of the
ensign. This salute should be acknowledged by the firing of one gun by
the flagship.


  ORDINARY SALUTE TO COMMODORE ENTERING HARBOR.

On ordinary occasions, when the Commodore’s yacht enters harbor his
flag should only be saluted with one gun from the yacht of the senior
officer of such club present, or by the dipping of the ensign once from
such senior’s yacht, and this salute should be acknowledged in kind by
the Commodore.


  JUNIOR OFFICER’S YACHT ENTERING HARBOR.

When a junior flag officer’s yacht enters harbor, his flag should be
saluted when his yacht comes to anchor by one gun, or by the single
dipping of the ensign, from the yacht of the senior officer present,
provided the latter is inferior in rank to the arriving flag officer;
otherwise the arriving officer will salute the flag of the officer in
command of the anchorage with one gun or by the single dipping of the
ensign when his yacht drops anchor.


  SENIOR OFFICER LEAVING HARBOR.

A senior officer leaving harbor should indicate that he has transferred
his command to the officer next below him in rank, by firing a gun or
by dipping his ensign once upon getting under way.


  FLAG OFFICER MAKING OFFICIAL VISIT.

When a flag officer makes an official visit between colors and sunset,
his flag should be run up to the fore-topmast-head of the yacht visited
and broken out as soon as he boards the same. Upon leaving, one gun
should be fired and his flag hauled down after he has entered the boat
alongside and it has been shoved off from the yacht.


  OFFICIAL SALUTE TO ANOTHER CLUB.

An official salute to another club should be made by hoisting the
burgee of such club to the fore-topmast-head and firing one gun. After
the salute has been returned, or a reasonable time for the return of
such allowed, the burgee should be hauled down and the yacht’s own
burgee hoisted. In the absence of the burgee of the club that is being
saluted the yacht’s own burgee may be half-masted while the salute is
given.


  POSTPONED SALUTES.

Salutes postponed on account of Sunday, or owing to the arrival of a
yacht after sunset, should be made immediately after colors on the
following morning.


  JUDGES’ YACHT NOT TO BE SALUTED.

During a race a yacht acting as Judge’s boat should not be saluted.


  SALUTES BETWEEN SQUADRONS OF DIFFERENT CLUBS.

When squadrons of different clubs meet, whether in harbor or at sea,
salutes should be exchanged only by the commanding officers of such
squadrons.


  SALUTES BETWEEN SINGLE YACHT AND SQUADRON.

Salutes from single yachts to a squadron should be answered only by the
commanding officer of the squadron.


  WHEN FIRING GUNS AND MAKING SIGNALS ARE PROHIBITED.

Firing guns and making signals when under way with a squadron should
be carefully avoided, except in the line of duty. That is, no private
or personal signalling should go on between yachts, as the same might
easily be considered as levity and as lacking in respect to the
commanding officer of the squadron.


  BOAT SALUTES.

Salutes to be made between boats will be found under the head of “Boat
Service.”


  SALUTE TO THE QUARTER-DECK.

Upon boarding or leaving a yacht, the quarter-deck should be saluted by
touching the cap.




BOAT SERVICE.


  PARTICULARS CONCERNING BOATS.

Boats used on board yachts are known as gigs, cutters, life-boats, and
dingeys.

Boats are built in three different ways, namely: The _carval-built_,
the planks fore and aft, the edges meeting but not overlapping. The
_clinker-built_, the planks fore and aft, the edges overlapping. The
_diagonal-built_, the planking running diagonally, the inside planks
running in a contrary direction to the outside planks, their edges
meeting.

Boats are called _single_ or _double-banked_, according as they have
one or two rowers to a thwart.

_Thwarts_ are the seats on which the crew sit; the space abaft the
after thwart is called the _stern-sheets_.

The spaces for the oars in the wash streak of boats are called
_rowlocks_.

Oars are made of ash or spruce; that part of the oar which is dipped
in the water is called the _blade_; the round part which is inboard,
the _loom_; the extremity of the loom, which is grasped by the rower’s
hand, the _handle_.

Oars are called _double-banked_ when two men pull one oar.

_Feathering_ is known as turning the blades nearly flat to the water
after the stroke, with the upper edge turned forward.

_Boat-falls_ are purchases made with two blocks and a length of rope,
used for hoisting a boat to the davits.

The _painter_ is a length of line made fast into a ring-bolt in the
stem of boats, used for making the boat fast, to tow by, etc.

The _gunwale_ of a boat is the upper rail.

The _yoke_ is a piece of wood or metal fitted across the head of a
boat’s rudder.

_Yoke lines_ are pieces of rope made fast to the yoke by which the
rudder is turned and the boat steered.

_Boat-davits_ are pieces of timber or iron projecting over a vessel’s
sides or stern to hoist boats up to.

_A plug_ is the wooden stopper fitted into a hole in the bottom of the
boat to let in or keep out water.

_Flooring_ is the bottom boards of the boat.

_Boat booms_ are the booms on either side of a vessel to which the
boats ride when the ship is at anchor.

_A boat-breaker_ is a small keg used for carrying fresh water.

_A boat-recall_ is an understood signal made from the ship to summon a
boat to return.

_Gripes_ are long strips of canvas leading from the davit ends, and
passing under a boat to secure it. They are set taut by lanyards.

_Boat-fenders_ are small shapes of canvas or leather stuffed and hung
over a boat’s side to prevent it from being chafed and from chafing the
sides of the yacht.

_Back Board_ is a board in the stern of the boat on which is often
printed the name of the yacht to which she belongs.


  BOAT CEREMONY AND DISCIPLINE.

The lading of the gig should be arranged so that juniors in rank and in
official importance should enter the boat first, and the one highest in
rank and importance should immediately precede the Captain, who should
always be the last to enter the boat and the first to disembark. The
disembarking should take place in the reverse order to the embarking,
so that the junior in rank should be the last to leave the boat.


  BOAT ORDERS.

In the following the gig is supposed to be manned, and lying alongside
the gangway.

After the gig is reported ready to the Captain, he will direct his
guests to enter the boat, and after they are all seated he will receive
and return the Sailing-Master’s salute, then take his place in the
gig--care having been observed to leave the stern-sheets clear for him,
and the yoke lines ready to hand.

The Captain will observe that his private signal is stepped in the
bows, that the seating of his guests does not interfere with the stroke
oarsman, and will then call:

“SHOVE OFF FORWARD!”

When this order is given, the man in the bows shoves the boat’s head
away from the ship’s side, stows his boat-hook, and lays his hands on
his oar.

The next order is: “UP OARS!” “OARS APEAK” is sometimes wrongfully
employed.

The crew will simultaneously seize and raise their proper oars briskly
to the vertical (keeping their eyes on the stroke oarsman), and hold
them thus directly in front of them, the blades being fore-and-aft, the
ends of the oars held clear of the boat’s bottom; the oarsmen sitting
on the port side of the boat holding the oars with right hands down,
and those sitting on the starboard side holding the oars with left
hands down. The oarsmen sitting on the port side of the boat pull the
starboard oars, and the oarsmen sitting on the starboard side of the
boat pull the port oars.

The next command is: “LET FALL!”

The oars must be dropped into the rowlocks together, care being taken
to prevent the blades from striking the water--blades flat to the water
and leveled.

Next give the order: “GIVE WAY!”

The boat is now underway, the crew taking the style of pulling from the
stroke oarsman.

In running alongside of a vessel or float-stage, give the boat
sufficient impetus to “reach”; then call, while the blades are in the
water: “WAY ENOUGH!”

The men will finish the stroke and then raise their oars simultaneously
to a vertical position, and lay them with as little noise as possible
amidships in the boat in a line with the keel, the blades pointing
forward. The stroke and bow oarsmen seize their boat-hooks, and as the
boat runs alongside they stop its way and hold it.

With four or more oared boat, just before the order “WAY ENOUGH” is
given, the order “IN BOW” should be given to allow the man forward to
get in his oar and take his boat-hook in hand ready to fend off when
the boat comes alongside the landing.


  BOAT SALUTES.

Flag officers should display their pennants in the bows of boats when
underway, Captains their private signals, and members the club burgee.

Salutes shall only be made to boats displaying flags as above.

Junior flag officers, captains, and members in command of boats should
lie on their oars to the Commodore’s boat in passing, and at the same
time should raise their caps in salute.

Sailing-Masters, under-officers and coxswains should order their crews
to lie on their oars to boats passing that display flag officers’
pennants, and the one in charge of the boat should raise his cap in
salute.

Seniors in rank acknowledge salutes by simply raising the cap, and do
not cease rowing.

Captains and junior flag officers passing should salute each other by
raising the cap--the junior saluting first--but the crews will not lie
on their oars.

The salutes from all boats under sail, being towed, or laden, should be
made by the one in charge raising his cap, and the way of such boats
should not be checked.

When approaching your own or another yacht for the purpose of going
alongside, on being hailed, answer by giving the name of your yacht, if
a Captain, but if a Commodore, the reply should be “Flag.”

If it is desired to cease rowing temporarily, give the order: “OARS!”
The crew will then lift the blades of their oars from the water,
holding the blades horizontally, and at right angles to the keel.

When it is desired to continue rowing, simply call: “GIVE WAY!”

When rowing, if passing so close to another boat that a collision of
oars seems probable, call: “TRAIL!” The men will keep their oars in the
rowlocks, but permit the blades to trail aft and alongside. When the
danger is past, call: “OARS!”--this brings the crew to attention, with
the oars in position to receive the order: “GIVE WAY!”

Never allow a boat’s crew to splash the water with the blades of their
oars when the order to “LET FALL” is executed.

Talking among a boat’s crew, or turning the head to observe any object,
while the boat is underway, should never be allowed.

The starboard after oar is called the “stroke oar,” and gives
the stroke, the remainder of the crew taking the style from it;
consequently it should be manned by the best man in the boat--the
coxswain of a gig pulls the stroke oar when the Captain is in the boat.

In rowing, the blade of each oar should be lifted as high as the
gunwale after it leaves the water, then feathered by dropping the
wrist. A short pause should then be made, and the oar next thrown well
forward, and dropped edgewise into the water, taking care to avoid
splashing. Now, rip the oar through the water with a hearty swing, and
then repeat as above.

If it is required to turn a boat suddenly, or short round to starboard,
then give the order to “GIVE WAY PORT; BACK STARBOARD.” If it is
required to turn short to port, then “GIVE WAY STARBOARD; BACK PORT.”
When the boat is pointed aright, then, “GIVE WAY TOGETHER!”

In backing, as in pulling, the crew should always keep stroke with the
after oar of their respective sides.

Never send a boat away from a ship at night without being provided with
a lantern, as many a boat has been run down through inability to make
its presence known.

Remember, in running alongside a ship or landing, that the deeper the
boat is freighted, the longer she will carry her way in the water.

In leaving a ship in foggy weather, provide the boat with a fog-horn
and compass, and judge as nearly as possible the bearing of the landing
you wish to make. Take the opposite of this bearing to return to the
ship, making in both cases due allowance for tide.

The boats should always be kept in perfect condition, and, unless the
crew are required to shift themselves, not more than three minutes
should elapse between the time the boat is called away and its arrival
at the gangway, manned and ready.

Never send away a gig’s crew unless they are dressed alike, and look
“spick and span”; hat ribbons should always be worn by a boat’s crew,
unless racing hoods are used.

Nothing shows the good discipline of a yacht more than efficient boat
service; and it is worthy of all pains and consideration.

The ranking officer should always be the last to enter a boat, and the
first to leave it. He will, also, command the boat.

To ride out a gale of wind in an open boat, lash the oars and bottom
boards together and weight them if possible. Span them with the boat’s
painter and pitch them overboard. This will keep the boat head to the
sea and prevent it from drifting fast.

Assist the boat to keep head to the sea by the use of a steering oar.

When crossing the bar of a river, if the water is much troubled, a
steering oar should be used and the rudder unshipped.

In the case of a boat being unable to pull up to the ship against a
strong wind or tide, veer a line out from the ship with the end made
fast to a buoy or any floating material sufficient to sustain the
bight, and when this reaches the boat the crew can make the end of the
line fast to the ring in the stem, and the boat can then be hauled up.
Another way is to drop a boat astern with a line secured to its painter
and then haul them both up together.

When two boats are approaching the same gangway, or landing stage, the
junior officer in rank should always give way to the senior.




GOVERNMENT OF THE YACHT


  SHIP’S BELLS.

The manner of telling the time on board ship is by striking the bell.
Eight bells indicate midnight, 4 A. M., 8 A. M., noon, 4 P. M., and 8
P. M. Thus it will be seen that every even four hours after midnight
brings 8 bells around. After midnight the first bell struck is 1, which
stands for half-past twelve; one o’clock is represented by 2 bells,
half-past one, by 3 bells; two o’clock by 4 bells; half-past two, by 5
bells; three o’clock, by 6 bells; half-past three, by 7 bells; and four
o’clock, by 8 bells.

At half-past four 1 bell is struck, and so on, in the above order,
until eight o’clock is made known by 8 bells again.

The time should always be taken from the flagship, or the senior
officer’s yacht present.


TABLE:

  Midnight                    8 bells.
  12.30 A. M.                 1 bell.
   1.00    ”                  2 bells.
   1.30    ”                  3   ”
   2.00    ”                  4   ”
   2.30    ”                  5   ”
   3.00    ”                  6   ”
   3.30    ”                  7   ”
   4.00    ”                  8   ”
   4.30    ”                  1 bell.
   5.00    ”                  2 bells.
   5.30    ”                  3   ”
   6.00    ”                  4   ”
   6.30    ”                  5   ”
   7.00    ”                  6   ”
   7.30    ”                  7   ”
   8.00    ”                  8   ”
   8.30    ”                  1 bell.
   9.00    ”                  2 bells.
   9.30    ”                  3   ”
  10.00    ”                  4   ”
  10.30    ”                  5   ”
  11.00    ”                  6   ”
  11.30    ”                  7   ”
  12.00 noon                  8   ”


  THE BOATSWAIN’S CALL.

On vessels where a good-sized crew is carried, the “Boatswain’s Call”
should be largely employed.

The following should always be “piped”:

The call to meals; the order to heave round; to order away boats; the
order to haul; the order to belay; the order to man the side; the order
to make colors; the order to make sunset; to call all hands; the call
to muster; to pipe down.

It is impossible to explain on paper the regular man-o’-wars-man’s
“pipe” for the different orders, nor is it necessary that their style
should be followed out strictly on yachts--any understood combination
between the boatswain (or mate) and the crew will answer all the
purposes for which the “call” is intended.

The following is offered:

_The Call of Attention_: A long straight pipe. This is used as a
preface to the verbal call of all hands on deck or to muster.

_To Call Away a Boat_: A long straight pipe, followed by the verbal
order: “AWAY GIG!” (or dingey or cutter, as the case may be).

_The Call to Meals_: Three long, rolling pipes.

_To Heave Round, or to Pull_: Several moderately short, straight pipes.

_To Belay_: Two short, quick chirps, followed by a moderately short,
rolling pipe.

_To Pipe the Side_: A prolonged straight pipe. (The Boatswain stands
facing the gangway, his “call” held to his mouth with his left hand,
while his right hand is raised to his cap in salute.) This pipe should
be made to the Captain, when coming on board or when leaving the yacht.
It should also be made to all other yacht commanders, dignitaries, and
officers of the army and navy.

_To Make “Colors” or “Sunset”_: Two short, quick chirps, followed by a
long, rolling pipe.

_To Pipe Down_: One long, straight, followed by a long, rolling pipe.


  YACHT ROUTINE.

As soon as a yacht is put in commission, the organization of the
officers and crew should be considered, so that everything may work
smoothly and harmoniously, to the satisfaction and peace of the Captain
and the manifest benefit of all concerned. The Sailing-Master should be
held responsible for this, and, in perfecting the details, of course,
he must be guided by the number of his crew.

If, in washing down, cleaning bright work, etc., each man is given
a certain station and allotted a particular piece of work, it will
be found that matters will be greatly expedited, and the individual
tasks will be performed better, for the reason that the man is held
accountable for the appearance of his own part of the ship.

Silence is one of the best evidences of discipline, and the officers
should set the example to the crew. When it is necessary to issue an
order let it be done in a quiet tone and avoid calling along the deck
as much as possible. The latter suggests the “coaster” and establishes
a bad precedent.

When in port the quartermaster or the last anchor watch should turn out
the cook one hour before “all hands,” so that morning coffee may be
ready when the general call is made.

Allow but twenty minutes between “turn out” and “turn to.”

After pumping the bilges, wash down decks, wipe the sides around and
the bright wood of the rail skylights and companion way and then turn
all hands on to the brass work, using a chamois skin.

Half an hour should be given the crew for breakfast (7 to 7.30 A. M.),
after which they should again be turned to, the brass work finished,
the decks tidied up, the crew dressed in their ordered uniform for
the day and everything ready for inspection by the Sailing-Master and
Captain (if the latter so desires).

The Sailing-Master (or mate) should always have one of the men row him
around the vessel the last thing in the morning, to make sure that all
the running rigging is taut, no scratches or chafing on the sides; that
there are no evidences of grass or scum along the water-line, and that
everything is proper and ship-shape.

One hour should be allowed for men for dinner--from 12 to 1.

A good Sailing-Master will always find something for the crew to work
at during working hours.

Smoking hours on deck should be regulated.

Never allow smoking while the crew are at work about the decks.

After supper (in port) allow the crew to smoke on the forward deck as
long as they please.

Under no consideration ever permit a boat’s crew to smoke while in the
boat.

In sending any boat ashore, the Sailing-Master (or, in his absence, the
mate), should always direct the boat where to land, and when to return
to the ship, except when the Captain is in the gig, who will direct his
own crew.

The crew should be habituated to move smartly about the decks, and to
answer quickly and respectfully to their officers.

In passing the Captain the crew should always salute by touching the
right hand to the cap, and the Captain should at all times acknowledge
same.

In the case of a gig’s crew, the coxswain only should salute the
Captain, both on entering and leaving the gig.

Mattresses and blankets should be thoroughly aired once every week, and
oftener should there have been damp weather.

The Sailing-Master and mates should never be ashore at the same time
while the yacht is in commission.

When coming to anchor, have the men stationed, and the instant the
anchor leaves the cat-head, fire a gun and swing out the boat booms,
except on Sundays, when no gun will be fired. If a salute is due,
however, it should be fired immediately after colors on Monday morning.

When leaving anchorage, if a steam yacht, fire a gun the instant the
anchor is aweigh, and the bell is rung to go ahead, but if a sailing
yacht, fire a gun when the anchor is tripped, and the vessel fills away.

On large yachts a quartermaster should always be on watch to give
notice to the officer of the deck on the approach of boats to the
vessel, signals made from other yachts, or from the shore.

_Underway at Night_: Always have a lookout stationed forward, and in
case of unusual darkness or thick weather, it is better to have two
lookouts--one on either bow. As soon as a light or a sail is sighted,
it should be reported in clear sharp tones to the officer of the deck,
who will at once convince himself as to its character and whether his
vessel or the one reported has the “right of way” and act accordingly.

_At Anchor at Night_: As soon as it is dark the “anchor watch” should
be set. According to the number of the crew available, the length of
time for each man to guard the deck should be regulated, so that from
the time the first anchor watch is set until all hands are called
in the morning, the watches shall be uniform, and no one man called
on deck twice during the night. It is the duty of the watch to keep
continually on the alert, examining the moorings occasionally, visiting
the quarter-deck, keeping an eye to the bright burning of the anchor
light, observing the drift lead, the swinging of his own vessel with
the tide, also of the vessels around him, and being careful that no
boat gets alongside his vessel unawares. In case a boat is seen making
for the yacht, it should be hailed--“BOAT-AHOY!” and if the hail is
answered satisfactorily, the boat can be allowed to board but, if
not, it must be warned off. In case of danger pound on the top of the
forecastle slide with anything available, at the same time calling
“ALL HANDS!” in a voice calculated to rouse the sleepers, and then,
until the deck is officered, act yourself under the circumstances, as
your common sense dictates. The anchor watch should strike the bells
regularly during the night.

_Boat Hails_: All boats closely approaching a yacht at night should be
hailed by the officer of the deck or the watch. Replies should be as
follows:

  For Commodore intending to board, “Commodore.”
  For Vice and Rear Commodores, “Flag.”
  For Fleet Captain, “Fleet.”
  For Captain, the name of his yacht.
  For a Club Member, “Aye, Aye.”
  For a visitor, “Visitor.”
  For Sailing-Master and other yacht officers, “No, no.”
  For one of the crew, “Hello.”
  For passing boats, “Passing.”

_Concerning Watches_: As soon as a yacht leaves port, bound on a
voyage, the crew should be divided into watches and the first regular
watch set at 8 P. M. on the day of sailing. The Captain always takes
the first watch out, and the Sailing-Master the first watch home. The
stewards, cooks, and waiters are known as “idlers” and they stand no
watch.

The captain’s watch is called the “starboard” and the Sailing-Master’s
the “port” watch.

If there is an uneven number of men in the forecastle, the odd man goes
into the captain’s watch by courtesy.

Provided the yacht carries a mate, the captain’s watch is kept by him,
so that the captain has no regular deck duty, but goes and comes as he
pleases.

The officer on watch is known as the “officer of the deck,” and, while
left in possession, his orders must be obeyed to the letter. He has
full powers to alter the course of the ship to avoid danger, to make or
alter, or take in sail, etc.

The seven regular watches are named as follows:

  From midnight to 4 A. M.         _the Mid Watch_.
    ”  4 A. M. to 8 A. M.          _the Morning Watch_.
    ”  8 A. M. to noon             _the Forenoon Watch_.
    ”  noon to 4 P. M.             _the Afternoon Watch_.
    ”  4 P. M. to 6 P. M.          _the First Dog Watch_.
    ”  6 P. M. to 8 P. M.          _the Second Dog Watch_.
    ”  8 P. M. to 12 midnight      _the First Watch_.




DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS.


  NOTE.

In the following treatise on the duties and responsibilities of the
Captain and his officers, the question of the steam yacht carrying
a goodly crew has been particularly considered but the rules,
regulations, etc., laid down for the government of such large craft may
easily be modified and brought within the compass of smaller steam and
sail yachts.


  THE CAPTAIN.

The Sailing-Master, mates, boatswain, carpenter, engineers, stewards,
the petty officers, such as quartermasters, cooks, oilers, boatswain’s
mates, etc., as well as every seaman, fireman, and waiter on board the
yacht are subject to the control and orders of the Captain.

The Captain is responsible for the general equipment and general
management of his yacht, and for the vessel (when in commission) being
at all times fully found and provided with coals, water, provisions,
compasses, chronometers, charts, sextants, and other stores and
appliances requisite for the navigation of the yacht. Of course, these
duties may be assigned to the Sailing-Master by the Captain, but upon
the latter rests the responsibility of giving the necessary orders to
insure such performance.

The Captain shall inspect the yacht every day to observe that
cleanliness and order is practised in the various departments--deck,
engineer and steward’s--and shall hold strictly accountable for each
department the officer in charge of same.

The Captain shall see to it that the officers attend strictly to their
several duties, that no waste or extravagance in the way of stores and
provisions is allowed, and that the men under the different heads of
the departments are respectful and obedient to their superiors and move
smartly in the discharge of their duties.

The Captain will observe that the officers and men respect the laws and
regulations of the ports visited by the yacht, and will issue strict
orders that contraband or dutiable articles for personal use shall not
be brought on board to cause trouble and annoyance upon the return of
the yacht to a home port, or upon an attempt to smuggle such articles
ashore in any other port.

The Captain shall see to it that the crew are frequently exercised at
fire-quarters, and shall enforce the order that all boats are kept
ready for immediate lowering and that the fire hose is attached at
night and ready for use at a moment’s notice.

The Captain will exact the observance of strict courtesy between the
officers of various departments and not allow undue familiarity between
them outside of their own quarters, and gambling between the officers
or between the men shall always be prohibited.

The Captain will forbid private trading on the part of officers and
crew under any circumstances, and shall impress upon the minds of all
on board that the dignity of a gentleman’s private vessel is to be
upheld, and that loud or vulgar language will not be tolerated.

The Captain will have reported to him all cases of misconduct on
the part of any of the crew, and will never permit punishment to be
inflicted unless by his express orders, and he will award the character
of the punishment after consulting with the Sailing-Master, engineer or
steward, according to the department in which the offender belongs. He
is responsible for any ill-treatment of the crew by his officers.

If one of the crew die on board, the Captain must make an inventory of
his effects, entering same with the name, rank, etc., in the log-book,
and upon the arrival of the yacht in port, a report must be made to the
health-officer of the port.

The Captain has the power to appoint his officers and has entire
command over them during the time they are on board. He may, for any
cause, suspend them from duty, and in case of mutinous conduct at sea,
he is justified in putting in irons any officer or any member of the
crew. The log-book must, according to law, set forth all that occurs
of an important nature during the voyage, especially such cases as
punishment inflicted, and for what cause, etc.

Upon arrival in a foreign port, the Captain should go to the Custom
House, taking the bill of health and yacht’s papers and report his
arrival.


  THE SAILING-MASTER.

Under the head of “Yacht Routine,” in a preceding chapter, will be
found in detail the character of the deck work that the Sailing-Master
should see carried out.

The Sailing-Master, when the yacht is underway, will never allow the
officer of the deck to leave the bridge unless regularly or temporarily
relieved.

If the Sailing-Master disapproves of anything performed by one of the
officers, he should quietly call him aside and correct him, but he
should never do it within the hearing of the crew, as they may lose
respect for an officer who was not shown respect by an officer above
him.

The Sailing-Master, mate, second mate, or any other officer, when in
charge of the deck, has full power over the yacht, as he represents the
authority of the Captain.

The Sailing-Master will navigate the yacht and will be responsible to
the Captain for the safety and order of the vessel above and below
decks, and, provided he is entrusted to select the officers and
crew, he will be responsible to the Captain for their competency and
desirability in all respects.

Whenever an officer, or any of the seamen, desires to see the Captain
for personal reasons, he must first acquaint the Sailing-Master with
his wishes, and the Sailing-Master will refer the request to the
Captain, who will specify his pleasure in the matter, and such will be
conveyed in turn to the applicant; but under no circumstances will the
Captain be approached by an officer or man, “over the Sailing-Master’s
head,” for the only way to maintain discipline on board is by
impressing upon the crew as a whole that the Sailing-Master, being the
executive officer, the running of the yacht is in his hands, and the
most implicit obedience and respect must be accorded him.

Officers and men must never think of leaving the yacht, even when
alongside the dock, without first obtaining the consent of the
Sailing-Master, or, in his absence, from the officer left in command,
who will be acquainted with the Sailing-Master’s wishes in the matter.

When entering or leaving port, the Sailing-Master’s place is on the
bridge, directing the movements of the yacht.


  CHIEF ENGINEER.

The chief engineer has full control over all persons--officers and
men--in his department.

The engineer on watch in the engine-room when the yacht is underway,
represents the chief engineer, and the fireman on watch must obey him,
and he in turn must obey any orders received from the officer of the
deck in the way of handling the engines.

The chief engineer will be held responsible for all hands in his
department implicitly carrying out the orders of the Captain, or of the
officer of the deck.

Neither the assistants nor any member of the engine or fire-room force
will leave the vessel without first reporting to and obtaining the
chief engineer’s consent, who, in turn, will solicit the same from the
Sailing-Master and then acquaint the applicant with the result.

The chief engineer will personally superintend the coaling of the
yacht, and satisfy himself that the quantity of coal charged for has
been received on board. He will make an entry on the engine-room
log-book stating the amount of coal receipted for, also its quality.

When other engine-room stores, tools, etc., are received on board, they
will be receipted for by the chief engineer and a memorandum of same
entered on his log-book.

The chief engineer will be held responsible for any waste of stores or
extravagance in his department.

The chief engineer will be held accountable for the conduct of all
officers and men under his control.

The chief engineer will enforce the law that an engineer on watch
is never to absent himself from the engine-room without having been
regularly relieved by another engineer, and will also see to it that no
fireman, oiler, water-tender, etc., leaves his post without permission
from the engineer on watch.

Should any member of the engineer’s force misconduct himself, or
disobey any order received by him from a superior officer, the chief
engineer must report the case to the Captain, so that it may be
dealt with by the latter, and in no case is the chief or one of his
assistants to inflict punishment upon a man unless such punishment is
authorized by the Captain.

The chief engineer will see to it that the engineer of the watch
keeps a steady pressure of steam, according to the instructions that
he has received, and with a view to economy of fuel, the engineer on
watch will direct attention to the condition of the fires, and the
mode of firing. The chief will also make sure that his assistants are
well acquainted with the various pipes, cocks, valves and connections
generally.

When entering or leaving port the chief engineer will assume personal
charge of the engines, or at any other time when special care is
demanded for executing promptly the orders signalled from the bridge.

The chief engineer will keep the engine-room log-book, and fill up
the columns therein. Under the head of “Remarks” he will enter the
particulars of all stores used; the time of leaving and arriving in
port; all occurrences relating to the working of the boilers and
machinery, accidents of whatever nature to engines or to the men, etc.,
and each day’s log is to be verified by his signature.

The chief engineer will daily, at noon, while under steam, lay before
the Sailing-Master an abstract of the engine-room log-book, containing
the expenditure of coals, oils and other stores during the preceding
twenty-four hours, and the amount remaining on hand; also the total
number of revolutions made during the preceding twenty-four hours.

The chief engineer will be held responsible that the steam
steering-gear, windlass, refrigerating and electric plants are kept in
efficient state and at all times ready when required.

On sailing days, or on departure from any port, the chief engineer
must have his department in good order, steam maintained at the proper
limit, and half an hour before the time of starting he must report to
the Sailing-Master that his department is all ready, after which the
chief and his assistants must remain on duty until the yacht is clear
of the pilot or the harbor cleared, when the first assistant engineer
will take charge of the engine-room watch.

Should the engineer of the watch find it necessary to stop his engines
when underway, he shall at once send word to the Sailing-Master or to
the officer of the deck, and obtain his consent before stopping, except
in cases of special emergency, when he will be justified in stopping
without orders, but knowledge of the act must at once be sent to the
officer of the deck.

The chief engineer will have full control of regulating the amount of
steam to be carried, using his own judgment as to what is necessary for
the speed required.


  FIRST MATE.

It is common to refer to the first mate as the “chief officer.”

After being appointed the chief officer, he should get an inventory
of everything under his charge, and obtain from the boatswain and
carpenter a list of their stores also, and a memorandum of whatever
else they require. He should see that the windlass is in good working
order, and inspect personally the boats, falls, running and standing
rigging, sails, sail-covers, awnings, etc., and each night should lay
out the work for the boatswain and give him orders concerning his work
for the coming day. He should also observe that the carpenter attends
to the sluices and sounds the well and tanks night and morning.

When underway at sea, if the chief officer does not stand watch, he
should be about the decks all day to see that the boatswain is pushing
the work along.

The chief officer will also keep the log-book, copying into it from the
rough or deck log, and should take sights of the sun for latitude and
longitude, determine the deviation by azimuths of the sun, and keep the
yachts run by dead-reckoning. The log-book must be ready each day at 2
bells (one o’clock P. M.), for inspection by the Sailing-Master.

In anchoring, mooring and unmooring ship, the chief officer’s place is
on the forecastle, directing the handling of the bow-lines.

When heaving up anchor, or when coming to anchor, the chief officer’s
place is on the forecastle directing the handling of the cable
according to orders from the Sailing-Master on the bridge.

If the first officer stands deck watch, his bridge duties will be the
same as those laid down for the second officer.


  SECOND MATE.

In mooring and unmooring ship, the second officer’s place is aft, and
he is responsible for any accident that occurs at his end of the yacht
while docking or leaving dock, or when getting underway or coming to
anchor.

When running out lines, or taking them in, he must be careful to keep
them clear of the propeller, and in the event of a line getting foul of
same he must at once make same known to the officer on the bridge, so
that the engines may be stopped.

When docking, a couple of cork-fenders should be kept handy on the
quarters.

After mooring, the ropes should be coiled down neatly and chafing gear
put on where necessary, after which the men should be sent forward to
the boatswain.

When leaving port, the second mate should attend to the secure lashing
of anything requiring it aft, and also see to it that the carpenter has
secured the gangways, ports, etc.

When coming to anchor, the second mate’s place is by the leadsman, when
he does not take the lead himself.

When at sea, before he relieves the bridge, he should take a turn
around the deck fore and aft to see that there is nothing adrift and no
evidences of anything wrong.

He should never hesitate to call the Captain if in doubt about anything
of an important nature--such as fog; if weather looks threatening; if
the barometer is unsteady; if there is the sight or sound of broken
water.

The second mate must be particular to note everything correctly in
the log-book for his watch, reading the patent log the last thing and
entering the distance run for the preceding four hours.


  BOATSWAIN.

Upon reporting for duty the boatswain must ascertain the kind and
quantity of the deck stores, cordage, sails, canvas, paints, brushes,
salt-water-soap, brooms, etc., etc., because it is his duty to serve
out such in keeping the yacht in order.

He must inspect every time they are used cat-falls, mooring-lines,
etc., and if they are found defective, he must at once make a report to
the first mate.

The boatswain remains on deck all day and takes charge of all the men
engaged on deck work, receiving his orders each night from the first
mate as to the character of the work to be carried on the following
day; but he must also exercise his own judgment when he sees anything
of a minor nature in his department requiring attention.


  CARPENTER.

Upon reporting for duty the carpenter must overhaul all the sluices to
see that they are in proper working order; make himself familiar with
the location of the sounding-pipe, water tanks, etc.

He must also thoroughly understand the working of the windlass, and
take personal charge of it when the anchors are being used. It is his
special duty also to examine all dead lights for leaks, and to attend
to the shipping and unshipping of the gangway ladders.

The carpenter is under the direct orders of the chief officer, and
whenever the carpenter’s services are required by the engineers, the
chief officer must have the application for the carpenter’s services
made to him.

The carpenter must sound the tanks and well every night and morning,
note his remarks on the engine-room slate, and report as well to the
officer of the deck--this must be done both at sea and in port.

It is also the carpenter’s duty to attend to the steering-gear and
report at once to the chief mate any defect in the wheel-chains or
mechanism.

The carpenter has the keeping in repair of all the boats, spars,
bulwarks, blocks, and in fact everything of a wooden nature on board
the yacht.


  QUARTERMASTERS.

The duties of quartermasters are to steer the yacht, keep the pilot
house in order, clean all bright work belonging to his department
in the way of binnacles, wheel, speaking tubes, steering-gear,
step-plates, etc. They have charge of the bunting and are responsible
for its condition, and it is also required of them that they shall be
familiar with the signal code, and shall take the signal halliards
under their personal care to insure their readiness for use. All
the signal lanterns are under their charge, as is also the hand and
deep-sea leads. When the yacht is at anchor, quartermasters stand
regular watch and watch by day as well as by night, taking charge of
the anchor watch.


  STEWARD.

The duties of the steward are varied, and the comfort and happiness of
the yacht depend upon his ability, integrity, and ambition to keep a
contented ship fore and aft.

Whether he is serving on a small yacht or a large one, he should
remember that the money of the millionaire owner should not be any
more recklessly spent by the steward than the money of the man who can
afford yachting in only a very modest way. Besides this, the steward
should be a man of sufficiently high moral character to realize that
waste of any kind is wicked.

It matters not how rich an owner may be, he is just as sensitive to the
foolish expenditure of his money as is his less pretentious yachting
friend, and no steward should conduct his department on the theory
that the owner is too well off to be at all concerned whether it costs
five dollars a day to provision the yacht or five hundred.

There are stewards who personally are strictly honest, but who are
either careless in the quantity of the purchases, or who leave entirely
too much to the cook--who think it too great a trouble to look into
“pots and pans,” or who avoid any such supervision for fear of
offending the autocrat of the galley. This is all wrong. The cook is
under the direction and orders of the steward, and if the latter is the
proper sort of official he will not allow any other interpretation of
his authority.

If under-stewards are carried, they are simply aids to the steward,
whose orders they will at all times unquestionably obey, and to insure
the smooth running of this department, the owner should authorize the
steward to select his subordinates.

It goes without saying that all the provisions on board are under his
care, and that he should at all times know the amount of stores on hand
in his department. He should keep an expenditure book showing credit
and debit sides, so as to be able quickly to know how much money he has
received from the owner, and what amount of same he has expended.

In addition to his care of the owner’s wardrobe, the silverware,
glass, crockery, bedding and linen, both in the cabins and officers’
quarters, he is responsible also for fixtures in the way of lamps,
cushions, furniture, etc.

He should, in addition to his supervision of the cabins, inspect the
officers’ rooms every morning to see that same are sweet and clean.
He must demand that everything in the kitchen is kept shining; that
the brass work on the inside of all skylights to cabin and officers’
quarters, and the hand-rails to companionway are at all times carefully
polished.

Whenever it is desired to brush rugs and mats on deck, he should always
notify the mate, so that proper precautions may be taken to prevent
dust from injuring anything about decks in the way of fresh paint,
varnish, etc.

When it is necessary that he should go ashore for provisions, ice,
etc., he should notify the Sailing-Master sufficiently ahead of time so
that the boat service required may not interfere with the regular deck
work.

In the case of guests his duty is to contribute in everyway possible to
their comfort and pleasure while on board, realizing that by so doing
he is not only fulfilling another of his functions, but that he is
rendering the greatest satisfaction to the owner, whose pleasure it is
to know that the outing offered his friends is being made as pleasant
as possible.


  SURGEON.

In the event of a surgeon being carried, it will be the duty of this
officer to look after the general health of all on board, and to be
keenly alive to the sanitary condition of the yacht.

Whenever an inspection of the vessel is being held, it is his place to
accompany the Captain on his rounds, and to offer needful suggestions.

When the yacht’s water tanks are to be filled, he should inspect
the quality of the water offered, and should analyze same if he is
suspicious that it may be unhealthy owing to the presence of vegetable
matter, etc.

Should sickness occur among the crew, he should take proper precautions
to isolate the man so far as possible until a satisfactory diagnosis of
the case assures him as to the character of the illness.




SYNOPSIS OF U. S. LAWS GOVERNING AMERICAN STEAM AND SAIL YACHTS, AND
FOREIGN YACHTS IN U. S. WATERS.


1. A yacht must be licensed.

A license authorizes a yacht to sail from port to port of the United
States, and by sea to foreign ports, without entrance or clearance, and
absolves her from the payment of tonnage duty and light money; but upon
the return of a yacht from a foreign port she must enter at the Custom
House of the port of her first arrival.

To enter a vessel, it is necessary to have a manifest with two copies
ready on arrival. The revenue cutter may take one, the boarding officer
another, while the third is produced by the Master before the Collector.

The Master makes oath to its truth. The manifest should specify ship’s
stores, and state that no cargo is carried.

2. In going foreign a yacht captain may have a certified crew list
and shipping articles (sign his crew to articles), although it is not
compulsory.

3. Whether or not, in going foreign, a bill of health for the vessel
would be needed, would depend upon the laws of the country of her
destination. If it is decided to carry same, it may be obtained from
the Custom House upon demand, provided the port sailing from is in a
normal condition of healthfulness.

4. A foreign yacht arriving from abroad must be entered at the port
of her first arrival; but tonnage duty is not exacted, provided she
belongs to a regularly organized and incorporated yacht club.

5. A pleasure vessel purchased by a citizen from an alien has the same
privileges as a vessel built in the United States, except that she
cannot be documented. She is subject to light money of fifty cents per
ton on arrival at each port, although this is seldom enforced.

6. If a foreign yacht should be wrecked in U. S. waters, and be
purchased by a citizen, who expends upon her in repairs three times as
much as he paid for her as a wreck, she could be documented as a yacht
of the United States.

7. A foreign-built yacht owned by a citizen may fly the U. S. flag,
but not the American yacht ensign, according to law, which ensign
is prescribed for American-built yachts only; but it is often flown
contrary to law.

8. For a sailing yacht the name of the vessel and port must be placed
conspicuously upon the stern. The letters to be not less than three
inches in length.

9. The name of a screw steamer yacht, and her port, must be placed on
the stern in letters six inches in length, and upon each outer side of
the pilot house; but if she be a side-wheel vessel, the name must be
painted on the outside of each paddle-box also.

10. The painting of the name upon the bows of yachts is optional with
the owner.

11. Any vessel propelled in whole or in part by steam is declared a
steam vessel within the meaning of the law.

12. The hull and boiler of a steam yacht is subject to annual
inspection by the U. S. Board of Local Inspectors.

13. No steam yacht, whatever her size, is permitted to be navigated
without a licensed master or pilot, and engineer, under penalty of a
fine of one hundred dollars for each offense.

14. Masters, mates, pilots, and engineers, upon giving satisfactory
evidence of their qualifications, may be licensed by the U. S. Local
Inspectors for the term of five years, but the license may be revoked
for cause.

15. Every licensed officer must have his license framed under glass,
and posted in a conspicuous place on board the vessel, under penalty of
revocation or one hundred dollars fine.

16. Any one who employs an unlicensed officer is subject to a fine of
one hundred dollars.

17. The Local Inspectors are authorized to suspend or revoke, upon
satisfactory evidence, the license of any officer for bad conduct,
drunkenness, inattention to duty, or incapacity.

18. If an owner proves to the Local Inspectors that his engineer has
allowed his boiler to burn, and that he has not kept his engine and
machinery in good order, the Inspectors are authorized to degrade him.

19. The fees previously charged for licenses to officers, and for
inspections and examinations of vessels of the United States, were
abolished in 1886.

20. A yacht of any foreign nation, which extends like courtesies to the
United States, provided the yacht belongs to a regularly organized and
incorporated yacht club, is privileged to arrive at and depart from
port to port of the United States without making entrance or clearance,
but when arriving from a foreign port she must enter at the port of her
first arrival in the United States.

If the yacht does not belong to such a nation, or does not belong to
such a yacht club, she must enter at and clear from every port of the
United States she goes into.

21. A commission to sail for pleasure, in any designated yacht
belonging to a regularly organized and incorporated yacht club, may be
obtained from the Treasury Department through the Collector of Customs
at the port where the yacht may be. It does not supersede the license,
but is in addition to it, and is only issued by yachts going abroad to
secure more extended courtesies. It is issued for the voyage only, and
must be surrendered at the port of her first arrival on her return to
the United States.

22. Yachts of 20 tons and upwards must also be enrolled. (1899 Laws.)

23. According to law, the owner of a steam yacht may secure a license
to command and pilot his own vessel, provided he passes the examination
required by the U. S. Local Inspectors of Steam Vessels.




INDEX


  BOAT SERVICE.                PAGE

  Boat Ceremony and Discipline, 49

  Boat Orders, 49

  Boat Salutes and Management, 51

  Particulars Concerning Boats, 47


  CEREMONIES AND COURTESIES.

  Captain of Visiting Yacht Pays Respects, 29

  Commodore’s Duties--Commissioning Club, 35

  Commodore’s Duties--Club in Commission, 36

  Commodore’s Duties--Going Out of Commission, 38

  Duties of the Fleet Captain, 40

  Honors to the Captain Embarking, 39

  Honors to the Captain Disembarking, 39

  Putting Yacht In Commission, 34

  Putting Yacht Out of Commission, 34

  Quarter-Deck to be Saluted, 29

  Reception of the President, 30

  Reception of the Vice-President, 31

  Reception of Secretary of Navy, 31

  Reception of Cabinet Officers, 31

  Reception of a Governor, 32

  Reception of Foreign Sovereign, 32

  Reception of Royalty, 32

  Reception of Naval Officers, 32

  Reception of Army Officers, 32

  Reception of Other Officials, 33

  Reception of Flag Officers, 33

  Reception of Diplomatic Corps, 33

  Senior Officer Returns Salutes and Visits, 29

  Senior Officer Tenders Civilities, 29

  Yacht Joining Squadron, 29


  COLORS IN GENERAL.

  Absent Flag, 14

  At Anchor with Naval Vessels, 13

  Before Colors or After Sunset, 13

  Boat Engaged in Funeral Ceremony, 19

  Burgee and Private Signal Broken Out, 16

  Colors in Yacht’s Boats, 15

  Colors to be Well Hoisted, 16

  Commodore Cruising with Another Club, 24

  Commodore’s Night and Day Pennant, 25

  Commodore’s Private Signal, 25

  Day Signals for Pilots, 21

  Death of Captain, 17

  Death of Club Member, 18

  Death of Flag Officer, 17

  Death of One of the Crew, 19

  Dressing Ship, 22

  Ensign When Passing Light Houses, Etc., 15

  Ensign When Passing Naval Vessels, 15

  Entering or Leaving Port, 13

  Flag Officer Entering Another Harbor, 25

  Flag Officer’s Pennant, 16

  Hauling Down Half-Mast Colors, 18

  Hours for Half-Masting Colors, 19

  How to Half-Mast Colors, 18

  Jack--When Displayed, 26

  Making Colors, 19

  Making Sunset, 20

  Mastless Yachts, 16

  Meal Pennants, 14

  National Mourning, 17

  Night Pennant, 13

  Night Signals for Pilots, 21

  Off a Naval Station, 13

  Permission to Half-Mast Colors, 19

  Place to Display Colors, 11

  Saluting with Ensign Half-Mast, 18

  Senior Officer Gives the Time, 12

  Signal for Towing-Boat, 22

  Single Stickers, 14

  Sunrise and Sunset, 12

  Time to Make Colors, 11

  Visiting Another Club, 13

  Yacht Flags and How They Are Used, 11

  Yacht Short-Handed, 16


  DUTIES OF OFFICERS.

  Boatswain, 76

  Captain, 65

  Carpenter, 76

  Chief Engineer, 70

  First Mate, 73

  Quartermasters, 77

  Sailing-Master, 68

  Second Mate, 74

  Steward, 78

  Surgeon, 81


  GOVERNMENT OF THE YACHT.

  At Anchor at Night, 62

  Boat Hails, 62

  Concerning Watches, 63

  Ship’s Bells, 56

  The Boatswain’s Call, 57

  Underway at Night, 61

  Yacht Routine, 58


  SALUTES IN GENERAL.

  Boat Salutes, 46

  Colors and Sunset Gun, 41

  Dipping the Ensign, 42

  Flag Officer’s Official Visit, 44

  Guns Between Sunset and Colors, 41

  Guns on Sunday, 41

  Judges’ Yacht not Saluted, 45

  Junior Officer Entering Harbor, 43

  Official Salute to Another Club, 44

  Ordinary Salute to Commodore, 43

  Postponed Salutes, 45

  Salute of Passing Yachts, 42

  Salute to Quarter-Deck, 46

  Salute to Yacht Entering, 42

  Salutes Between Squadrons, 45

  Salutes to Naval Vessels, 41

  Salutes Upon Entering Harbor, 42

  Salutes When Meeting at Sea, 42

  Senior Officer Leaving Harbor, 44

  Single Yacht and Squadron, 45

  Special Salute to Commodore, 43

  Steam Whistles Not to be Used, 42

  When Firing Guns is Prohibited, 46

  When Making Signals is Prohibited, 46


  SPECIAL LIGHTS.

  Absent Lights, 27

  Commodore’s Lights, 27

  Dinner Light, 28

  Lanterns Under Boom, 28

  Rear-Commodore’s Lights, 27

  Vice-Commodore’s Lights, 27


  SYNOPSIS OF U. S. YACHTING LAWS.

  Bill of Health, 82

  Documenting of a Foreign Yacht, 83

  Entering a Yacht, 82

  Fine for Unlicensed Officers, 84

  Foreign Yacht May Fly American Flag, 83

  Foreign Yacht Must Enter, 83

  Foreign Yachts Visiting the U. S., 85

  Hailing Port Must be Shown, 83

  Inspection of Hull and Boiler, 84

  Licensed Master, Pilot and Engineer, 84

  Light Money, 83

  Name of Yacht to be Displayed, 83

  Owner’s Licenses as Master and Pilot, 86

  Shipping Articles, 82

  Suspension of License, 84

  Tonnage Duty, 83

  What Constitutes a Steam Vessel, 84

  Yacht Commission, 86

  Yacht Enrollment, 86

  Yacht License Privileges, 82

  Yacht’s Manifest, 82




Transcriber’s Notes

Italics have been represented by _underlines_. Small caps have been
represented by CAPITALS.

Inconsistencies in hyphenation and capitalization have been silently
addressed.

Obvious printing errors have been silently corrected. Other
changes:

  When the date of going out of commission is fixed[,]

  They are set tau[gh]t by lanyards.

  but the rules, regulations[,] etc., laid down for the government of
  such large craft

Flag illustrations have been moved from pages 8 and 9 to a place in the
text where each flag is mentioned. The flag not specifically mentioned
in the text remains in its original location.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON YACHT ETIQUETTE ***


========================================================================
QUESTIONS
========================================================================

Answer the following questions using ONLY the text above. Each question
has exactly one correct answer. Follow the requested output format
exactly. Reply with one answer per line, labelled A1 through A20.

Q1. Throughout this treatise, by what single-word title is the owner of the yacht styled? Answer with a single word.
Q2. At what time should the ensign and colors of a yacht in commission be hoisted? Answer as a clock time exactly as written (e.g., "8 A. M.").
Q3. What color pennant is flown during the meal hours of the crew? Answer with a single color word.
Q4. How many minutes before colors should the signal halliards be manned (the men stationed)? Answer with a number only.
Q5. As a night signal for a pilot, what kind of light is shown every fifteen minutes? Answer with two words exactly as written.
Q6. How many blue lights does the Commodore show, between sunset and colors, when in harbor? Answer with a number only.
Q7. How many guns are fired in salute as the President of the United States reaches the deck? Answer with a number only.
Q8. At least how many days in advance must members be notified, by mail, of the day the club will open? Answer with a number only.
Q9. In no case is the ensign to be dipped more than how many times in one salute? Answer with a number only.
Q10. What is the upper rail of a boat called? Answer with a single word.
Q11. A "boat-breaker" is a small keg used for carrying what? Answer with two words.
Q12. At most how many minutes should elapse between the time a boat is called away and its arrival at the gangway, manned and ready? Answer with a number only.
Q13. How many bells are struck to indicate noon? Answer with a number only.
Q14. How many minutes are allowed between "turn out" and "turn to"? Answer with a number only.
Q15. How much time should be allowed the men for dinner? Answer exactly as written in the text (e.g., "One hour").
Q16. What is the watch from 4 P. M. to 6 P. M. called? Answer exactly as written in the text.
Q17. By what alternative two-word title is the first mate commonly referred to? Answer with two words.
Q18. What is the first-listed duty of the quartermasters? Answer with three words exactly as written (e.g., "steer the yacht").
Q19. For a sailing yacht, the name and port on the stern must be in letters not less than how many inches in length? Answer with a number only.
Q20. In what year were the fees previously charged for licenses to officers and for inspections and examinations of vessels abolished? Answer with a 4-digit year.
